A list with possible !FreeMat GUI improvements.

= Introduction =

Since the GUI is the place where the !FreeMat users spend most of thier work time,
it should get some serious attention in the next versions. In many cases these
improvemnts are small changes, but with big effect over the productivity or just the general appearance.

= Details =

Here's an unordered list of possible improvements. Some of them are spread all over
the issue trackers, but it's better to have a central place like this for them, since it's possible that one solution affects more than one issue:
  * Uniform Look&Feel on all OS platform (or at least a better one on Windows - see QT for possibilities)
  * Smaller icons from !FamFam (16x16) in Toolbar, but bigger in Menu (the !MenuItem text should be bigger too) than are now.
  * Shortcuts for all menu items (to be able use the application 100% with the keyboard)
  * Keymap manager (to be able to re-define the entire keymap).
  * File/New/M-File
  * File New/Figure
  * File/Open 
  * Console - Setting for cursor blink interval
  * Console - Setting the cursor dispaly (caret)
  * Console - Setting for prompt string
  * Console - there should be a little white inner margin around the text
  * Files - Distinct icons (not from the OS) for files and dirs based on the !FreeMat significance (e.g. m, mat, images, svg, csv, classes, packages)
  * Files - context menu with "open in editor" and "run" (and maybe "type")
  * Pathtool - add a cancel button
  * PDF keymap with all default shorcuts (for print and quick learn).
  * Editor - should have a white gutter. Line numbers and breakpoints sould be inside the white gutter.
  * Editor - 80 char wide red vertical line (and width at configurable column).