#summary Tutorials for FreeMat

= Introduction =

Home for community written tutorials for !FreeMat.


== Downloadable Tutorials ==

Here's the first !FreeMat tutorial.  This is at Version 1.01 :

  * [http://freemat.googlegroups.com/web/Freemat_primer_Ver_1.01.pdf The FreeMat Primer] (Ver 1.01, PDF format)
  * [http://freemat.googlegroups.com/web/Freemat_primer_Ver_1.01.odt The FreeMat Primer] (Ver 1.01, !OpenOffice format)

== Tutorials on the FreeMat Wiki == 

 * [TutorialGettingStarted Getting Started with FreeMat] - This will provide you with some basics so that you can get started using !FreeMat.
 * [TutorialMakeaFunction Make a Function] - This will show you how to make a function using !FreeMat.  It does so by showing you how to make your own functions for calculating the combinations and permutations of a set of items.
 * [TutorialMakeASinewave How to Make a Sine Wave] - Make your own calibrated sine wave based on a set sample rate.

== External Pages ==

Here are some nice Matlab-based tutorials:
  * [http://edu.levitas.net/Tutorials/Matlab/index.html Matlab Tutorial by T. Nguyen] - very good
  * [http://www.mathworks.com/access/helpdesk/help/techdoc/matlab.html Matlab Online Documentation] - looks like the entire Matlab documentation is online too.



= Wished =
Some Tutorials wished by the community in order to understand !FreeMat better:
  * How to Build !FreeMat from Source (on various environments) . [http://code.google.com/p/freemat/wiki/Building Empty Stub Here]
  * How to use the Engine of !FreeMat (or parts of !FreeMat) in other applications. [http://code.google.com/p/freemat/wiki/Engine Empty Stub Here]
  * The architecture of !FreeMat . [http://code.google.com/p/freemat/wiki/Architecture Empty Stub Here]
  * See other Empty Subs in this WIKI for wished information.